help/using/orchestrated/manual-schema.md, before:

---
solution: Journey Optimizer
product: journey optimizer
title: Étapes de configuration
description: Découvrez comment créer des schémas relationnels directement via l’interface utilisateur.
badge: label="Alpha"
hide: true
hidefromtoc: true
exl-id: 8c785431-9a00-46b8-ba54-54a10e288141
source-git-commit: ea5ef4005be90973046d3f94ea4c2b92eb89ffb4
workflow-type: tm+mt
source-wordcount: '306'
ht-degree: 7%

---

# Schéma manuel {#manual-schema}

+++ Table des matières

| Bienvenue dans les campagnes orchestrées | Lancer votre première campagne orchestrée | Interroger la base de données | Activités de campagnes orchestrées |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Prise en main des campagnes orchestrées](gs-orchestrated-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>Création et gestion de schémas et de jeux de données relationnels :</br><ul><li>[Prise en main des schémas et des jeux de données](gs-schemas.md)</li><li>[Schéma manuel](manual-schema.md)</li><li>[Schéma de chargement de fichier](file-upload-schema.md)</li><li>[ Ingérer des données ](ingest-data.md)</li></ul>[Accéder aux campagnes orchestrées et les gérer](access-manage-orchestrated-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>[Étapes clés pour créer une campagne orchestrée](gs-campaign-creation.md) | [Créer et planifier la campagne](create-orchestrated-campaign.md)<br/><br/>[Orchestrer les activités](orchestrate-activities.md)<br/><br/>[Démarrer et surveiller la campagne](start-monitor-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>[le reporting](reporting-campaigns.md) | [Utiliser le créateur de règles](orchestrated-rule-builder.md)<br/><br/>[Créer votre première requête](build-query.md)<br/><br/>[Modifier les expressions](edit-expressions.md)<br/><br/>[Reciblage](retarget.md) | [Prise en main des activités](activities/about-activities.md)<br/><br/>Activités:<br/>[Et-joindre](activities/and-join.md) - [Créer une audience](activities/build-audience.md) - [Modifier la dimension](activities/change-dimension.md) - [Activités de canal](activities/channels.md) - [Combine](activities/combine.md) - [Deduplication](activities/deduplication.md) - [Enrichissement](activities/enrichment.md) - [Fork](activities/fork.md) - [Reconciliation](activities/reconciliation.md) - [Enregistrer l’audience](activities/save-audience.md) - [Split](activities/split.md) - [Wait](activities/wait.md) |

{style="table-layout:fixed"}

+++

</br>

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

</br>

Le contenu de cette page n’est pas définitif et peut être modifié.

>[!ENDSHADEBOX]

Les schémas relationnels peuvent être créés directement via l’interface utilisateur, ce qui permet une configuration détaillée des attributs, des clés primaires, des champs de contrôle de version et des relations.

L’exemple suivant définit manuellement le schéma des appartenances au programme de fidélité pour illustrer la structure requise pour les campagnes orchestrées.

1. Connectez-vous à Adobe Experience Platform.

1. Accédez à **Gestion des données** > **Schéma**.

1. Cliquez sur **Créer un schéma**.

1. Vous êtes invité à choisir entre deux types de schéma :

   * **Standard**
   * **Relationnel**, utilisé spécifiquement pour les campagnes orchestrées

   ![](assets/admin_schema_1.png)

1. Fournissez un **Nom du schéma** (par exemple, `test_demo_ck001`).
1. Choisissez **Type de schéma** :
   **Type d’enregistrement** (obligatoire pour les campagnes AGO)
   **Série temporelle** (non applicable ici)
1. Cliquez sur **Terminer** pour accéder à la zone de travail de conception de schéma.

## Sélectionner les entités et les champs à importer

1. Dans la zone de travail, ajoutez des attributs (champs) à votre schéma.
1. Ajoutez une clé de Principal **&#x200B;**&#x200B;(obligatoire).
1. Ajoutez un attribut **Descripteur de version** (pour la prise en charge du CDC) :
Elle doit être de type **DateTime** ou **Numérique** (Entier, Long, Court, Octet).
Exemple courant : `last_modified`

> **Pourquoi ?** La clé de Principal **&#x200B;**&#x200B;identifie de manière unique chaque enregistrement et le **descripteur de version** suit les modifications, prend en charge le CDC (capture de données modifiées) et la mise en miroir des données.

1. Marquez les champs appropriés comme **clé de Principal** et **descripteur de version**.
1. Cliquez sur **Enregistrer**.


<!--

## 5. Creating a Dataset

1. Navigate to **Datasets**.
1. Click on **Create Dataset**.
1. Select the schema you just created.
1. Assign a **Dataset Name** (same as schema is fine).
1. Optionally, add tags (e.g., `AGO_campaigns`).
6. Ensure the checkbox **"Relational Schema"** is checked.
7. Click **Finish**.

> **Note:** Only one dataset can be created per relational schema.


## 6. Enabling the Dataset

1. Click **Enable** for the dataset.
1. Wait a few moments for the status to show **Enabled**.

> **Why?** Without enabling, the dataset cannot be used in orchestrated campaigns or ingest data.

## 7. Creating a Data Source (S3)

1. Navigate to **Sources**.
1. Click **Create Source**.
1. Choose the source type (e.g., **S3 Bucket**).
1. Provide connection details:
    - Bucket Path (optionally include subfolder path)
1. Save the source.

## 8. Preparing and Uploading Data

1. Prepare your CSV file with:
    - Column headers matching your schema attributes
    - `last_modified` column
    - `change_type` column (`U`/`DU` for upsert, `D` for delete)

> **Important:** `change_type` is required but does not need to be defined in the schema.

1. Save the file as `.csv`.

1. Upload the file to the specified folder in your S3 bucket.


## 9. Ingesting Data from S3

1. Go to **Sources** and find your S3 source.
1. Click **Add Data**.
1. Select the uploaded file.
1. Specify the file format as **CSV** and any compression type if applicable.
1. Review the data preview (ensure `change_type`, `last_modified`, and primary key are visible).
1. Click **Next**.

### Enable Change Data Capture (CDC)

- Check **Enable Change Data Capture**.
- Select the dataset enabled for AGO campaigns.

### Field Mapping

- Fields are auto-mapped (note that `change_type` is not mapped and that's expected).
- Click **Next**.

### Scheduling

- Schedule ingestion frequency (minute, hour, day, week).
- Set start time (immediate or future).
- Click **Finish** to create the data flow.

## 10. Monitoring Data Flow

1. Navigate back to **Sources > Data Flows**.
1. Wait 4–5 minutes for the first run (initial overhead).
1. Monitor:
    - Status (Started, Completed)
    - Number of records ingested
    - Errors (if any)

> **Tip:** Ingested data first lands in the **Data Lake**.

## 11. Data Replication to Data Store

The **Data Store** is updated:

- Every **15 minutes**, or

- If **Data Lake size exceeds 5MB**

This is a background replication process.


## 12. Querying the Dataset

1. Navigate to **Query Services**.
1. Click **Create Query**.
1. Example query:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM test_demo_ck001;
   ```

1. Run the query.

> **Note:** If ingestion is incomplete, query will return an error. Check data flow status.

-->

Commit message:

Updated by task 'AUTO_TM_MT_1752762379272' Changes for core/source commit https://git.corp.adobe.com/AdobeDocs/journey-optimizer.en/commit/3f92dc721648f822687b8efc302c40989b72b145

help/using/orchestrated/manual-schema.md, after:

---
solution: Journey Optimizer
product: journey optimizer
title: Étapes de configuration
description: Découvrez comment créer des schémas relationnels directement via l’interface utilisateur.
badge: label="Alpha"
hide: true
hidefromtoc: true
exl-id: 8c785431-9a00-46b8-ba54-54a10e288141
source-git-commit: 3f92dc721648f822687b8efc302c40989b72b145
workflow-type: tm+mt
source-wordcount: '152'
ht-degree: 9%

---

# Schéma manuel {#manual-schema}

+++ Table des matières

| Bienvenue dans les campagnes orchestrées | Lancer votre première campagne orchestrée | Interroger la base de données | Activités de campagnes orchestrées |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Prise en main des campagnes orchestrées](gs-orchestrated-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>Création et gestion de schémas et de jeux de données relationnels :</br><ul><li>[Prise en main des schémas et des jeux de données](gs-schemas.md)</li><li>[Schéma manuel](manual-schema.md)</li><li>[Schéma de chargement de fichier](file-upload-schema.md)</li><li>[ Ingérer des données ](ingest-data.md)</li></ul>[Accéder aux campagnes orchestrées et les gérer](access-manage-orchestrated-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>[Étapes clés pour créer une campagne orchestrée](gs-campaign-creation.md) | [Créer et planifier la campagne](create-orchestrated-campaign.md)<br/><br/>[Orchestrer les activités](orchestrate-activities.md)<br/><br/>[Démarrer et surveiller la campagne](start-monitor-campaigns.md)<br/><br/>[le reporting](reporting-campaigns.md) | [Utiliser le créateur de règles](orchestrated-rule-builder.md)<br/><br/>[Créer votre première requête](build-query.md)<br/><br/>[Modifier les expressions](edit-expressions.md)<br/><br/>[Reciblage](retarget.md) | [Prise en main des activités](activities/about-activities.md)<br/><br/>Activités:<br/>[Et-joindre](activities/and-join.md) - [Créer une audience](activities/build-audience.md) - [Modifier la dimension](activities/change-dimension.md) - [Activités de canal](activities/channels.md) - [Combine](activities/combine.md) - [Deduplication](activities/deduplication.md) - [Enrichissement](activities/enrichment.md) - [Fork](activities/fork.md) - [Reconciliation](activities/reconciliation.md) - [Enregistrer l’audience](activities/save-audience.md) - [Split](activities/split.md) - [Wait](activities/wait.md) |

{style="table-layout:fixed"}

+++

</br>

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

</br>

Le contenu de cette page n’est pas définitif et peut être modifié.

>[!ENDSHADEBOX]

Les schémas relationnels peuvent être créés directement via l’interface utilisateur, ce qui permet une configuration détaillée des attributs, des clés primaires, des champs de contrôle de version et des relations.

<!--
The following example manually defines the Loyalty Memberships schema to illustrate the required structure for orchestrated campaigns.

1. Log in to Adobe Experience Platform.

1. Navigate to the **Data Management** > **Schema**.

1. Click on **Create Schema**.

1. You will be prompted to select between two schema types:

    * **Standard**
    * **Relational**, used specifically for orchestrated campaigns

    ![](assets/admin_schema_1.png)

1. Provide a **Schema Name** (e.g., `test_demo_ck001`).
1. Choose **Schema Type**:
    **Record Type** (required for AGO campaigns)
    **Time Series** (not applicable here)
1. Click **Finish** to proceed to the schema design canvas.

## Select entities and fields to import

1. In the canvas, add attributes (fields) to your schema.
1. Add a **Primary Key** (mandatory).
1. Add a **Version Descriptor** attribute (for CDC support):
     This must be of type **DateTime** or **Numeric** (Integer, Long, Short, Byte).
     Common example: `last_modified`

> **Why?** The **Primary Key** uniquely identifies each record, and the **Version Descriptor** tracks changes, supporting CDC (Change Data Capture) and data mirroring.

1. Mark the appropriate fields as **Primary Key** and **Version Descriptor**.
1. Click **Save**.
-->

<!--

## 5. Creating a Dataset

1. Navigate to **Datasets**.
1. Click on **Create Dataset**.
1. Select the schema you just created.
1. Assign a **Dataset Name** (same as schema is fine).
1. Optionally, add tags (e.g., `AGO_campaigns`).
6. Ensure the checkbox **"Relational Schema"** is checked.
7. Click **Finish**.

> **Note:** Only one dataset can be created per relational schema.


## 6. Enabling the Dataset

1. Click **Enable** for the dataset.
1. Wait a few moments for the status to show **Enabled**.

> **Why?** Without enabling, the dataset cannot be used in orchestrated campaigns or ingest data.

## 7. Creating a Data Source (S3)

1. Navigate to **Sources**.
1. Click **Create Source**.
1. Choose the source type (e.g., **S3 Bucket**).
1. Provide connection details:
    - Bucket Path (optionally include subfolder path)
1. Save the source.

## 8. Preparing and Uploading Data

1. Prepare your CSV file with:
    - Column headers matching your schema attributes
    - `last_modified` column
    - `change_type` column (`U`/`DU` for upsert, `D` for delete)

> **Important:** `change_type` is required but does not need to be defined in the schema.

1. Save the file as `.csv`.

1. Upload the file to the specified folder in your S3 bucket.


## 9. Ingesting Data from S3

1. Go to **Sources** and find your S3 source.
1. Click **Add Data**.
1. Select the uploaded file.
1. Specify the file format as **CSV** and any compression type if applicable.
1. Review the data preview (ensure `change_type`, `last_modified`, and primary key are visible).
1. Click **Next**.

### Enable Change Data Capture (CDC)

- Check **Enable Change Data Capture**.
- Select the dataset enabled for AGO campaigns.

### Field Mapping

- Fields are auto-mapped (note that `change_type` is not mapped and that's expected).
- Click **Next**.

### Scheduling

- Schedule ingestion frequency (minute, hour, day, week).
- Set start time (immediate or future).
- Click **Finish** to create the data flow.

## 10. Monitoring Data Flow

1. Navigate back to **Sources > Data Flows**.
1. Wait 4–5 minutes for the first run (initial overhead).
1. Monitor:
    - Status (Started, Completed)
    - Number of records ingested
    - Errors (if any)

> **Tip:** Ingested data first lands in the **Data Lake**.

## 11. Data Replication to Data Store

The **Data Store** is updated:

- Every **15 minutes**, or

- If **Data Lake size exceeds 5MB**

This is a background replication process.


## 12. Querying the Dataset

1. Navigate to **Query Services**.
1. Click **Create Query**.
1. Example query:

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM test_demo_ck001;
   ```

1. Run the query.

> **Note:** If ingestion is incomplete, query will return an error. Check data flow status.

-->
